Exam Questions AWS 
---
Part one AWS Regions, Availability Zones, Edge locations

Availability Zones - disctince locations in AWS regions engineered to be isolated from failuers 

an AWS region consists of an independent collection of aws computing resources in a defined geography

Amazon Virtual Private Cloud is a networking service 

object based file storage is Simple Storage Serives S3

Route53 highly scable DNS service, named after port 53 where DNS resides 

Currenlyt there are 16 AWS regions worldwide and 42 availvibity zones, 

AWS  Elastic Map Reduce allows organizations to do complex analysis on large volumes of data.

Region, availability zone (az) and edge location
- region is a physical location in the world, has two or more AZ's, always at least 2
- an AZ is one ore more discrete data centers, each has redundant power networking and 
connectiity, houses in sepearte facilities, 
- edge locations are endpoints for AWS, whic are used for caching content, typically consists of 
CloudFront, Amazon's Content Delivery Network (CDN) 

---
Identity and Access Management IAM Quiz

Which statement best describes IAM?
 - Allows you to manage users, groups, roles and their corresponding level of access to the AWS
 platform
---

Features of IAM
 - centralised control of AWS, integrates existing actice directoy account allowing single sign on
also has fine grained access control to AWS resources

---

EC2 instances can have credentials stored on them so that the instances can access 
other resources (such as S3 buckets)  AND AWS recommends that you do this instead
 of assigning roles.
FALSE

---

What is the name of the service to allow users to use their social media
 account to gain temporary access to the AWS platform?
 - Web Identity Federation
---
What is the API call used to obtain temporary security credentials when authenticating 
using Web Identity Federation?
AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity
---
What is the name of the API call to request temporary security credentials from the
 AWS platform when federating with Active Directory?
AssumeROleWithSAML
----
When using active directory to authenticate to AWS what are the correct steps performed?

User navigates to Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS) webserver 2.) User enter their 
single sign on credentials 3.) the user's web browser recieves a SAML assertion from the AD
server 4.) the user's browser then posts the SAML assertion to the AWS SAML end point for SAML 
and the AssumeRoleWithSAML API request is used to request temporrary security credentials. 5.)
The user is then able to access the AWS Console. 

---
SAML stands for Security Assertion Markup Language.
TRUE

---

The AWS sign-in endpoint for SAML is https://signin.aws.amazon.com/saml
TRUE
---
When using Web Identity Federation to allow a user to access an AWS service (such as an S3 bucket) 
what is the correct order of steps?

1. User authenticates with medium, FB google whatever..... they are then given an ID token by
FaceBook (for example) An API called ARWWI AssumeRoleWithWebIdeneity is then used in 
conjunction with the ID toke. A user is then granted temporary security credentials. 